README.md, before:

# gb-geojson

View, create, edit, transform GeoJSON map data in British National Grid reference system.

[GeoJSON](http://geojson.org/) is a simple data structure based on JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) that can be used to describe geographic features.

> image here

**gb-geojson** is a tool that allows you to view, create and edit GeoJSON in both ESPG:4326 and OS National Grid reference systems. We reproject on the fly so you can edit in either system and interchange as easily as possible, this is done with accuracy that is acceptable for browser editing.

### Features

Feature list:
* It works (i hope)

### What is the difference between Lon, Lat and OS National Grid?

Notes on projection here


## Development

#### Run local webserver

To aid local development I recommend running a small webserver to serve static content.

```bash
$ node server
```

#### watchify

Run `watchify` when developing locally:

```
$ npm run watch-js
```

#### Development build

To build an unminified `browserified` bundle:

```
$ npm run build-dev
```

#### Production build

To produce a minified release `browserified` bundle:

```
$ npm run build
```


## Contributions

Please use the GitHub pull-request mechanism to submit contributions.


## Credits

This stands on the shoulders by reusing many excellent libraries and is inspired by the excellent [geojson.io](https://github.com/mapbox/geojson.io).

Some of the many other libraries used are:

* [Leaflet](https://github.com/Leaflet/)
* [Leaflet-draw](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.draw)
* [Proj4js](http://proj4js.org/)
* [Proj4Leaflet](https://github.com/kartena/Proj4Leaflet)


## Alternatives

If you dont want to use this tool then a simple alternative is to locally reproject your GeoJSON dataset with something such as [GDAL](http://www.gdal.org/ogr2ogr.html) or [reproject js library](https://github.com/perliedman/reproject) and then import into [geojson.io](https://github.com/mapbox/geojson.io).


## License

This project is available for use under the MIT software license.
See LICENSE

Commit message:

Add some kind of explanation of the spatial reference systems used. No doubt factually dodgy

README.md, after:

# gb-geojson

View, create, edit, transform GeoJSON map data in British National Grid reference system.

[GeoJSON](http://geojson.org/) is a simple data structure based on JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) that can be used to describe geographic features.

> image here

**gb-geojson** is a tool that allows you to view, create and edit GeoJSON in both ESPG:4326 and OS National Grid spatial reference systems. We reproject between these reference systems on the fly so you can edit in either system and interchange as easily as possible, this is done with accuracy that is acceptable for browser editing.


### Features

Feature list:
* It works (i hope)

### What is the difference between Lon, Lat and OS National Grid?

The "Lon, Lat" and "OS National Grid" switch in **gb-geojson** toggles the editable GeoJSON display between two different spatial reference systems; [ESPG:4326](http://spatialreference.org/ref/epsg/wgs-84/) and [ESPG:27700](http://spatialreference.org/ref/epsg/27700/). This changes the appearance of the cartesian coordinate data to and from the recognisable Longitude, Latitude coordinates and Ordnance Survey Eastings, Northings used by maps in Great Britain. The default reference system used by GeoJSON to describe its geospatial data is usually `ESPG:4326` however the purpose of **gb-geojson** is to facilitate editing of GeoJSON in [ESPG:27700](http://spatialreference.org/ref/epsg/27700/) so by toggling this switch we reproject between these spatial reference systems.

The GeoJSON geospatial data is always projected on the map using the Spherical Mercator `ESPG:3857`. The map tile layer is projected using [ESPG:27700](http://spatialreference.org/ref/epsg/27700/) from the OS OpenSpace service.

Note that the [GeoJSON spec](http://geojson.org/geojson-spec.html#positions) states that coordinates should be in the form `X, Y` for whichever projected reference system used.

The [GeoJSON spec](http://geojson.org/geojson-spec.html#coordinate-reference-system-objects) lists the `CRS` property but this is ignored by **gb-geojson** at present due to ambiguity and to maintain tool simplicity.


## Development

#### Run local webserver

To aid local development I recommend running a small webserver to serve static content.

```bash
$ node server
```

#### watchify

Run `watchify` when developing locally:

```
$ npm run watch-js
```

#### Development build

To build an unminified `browserified` bundle:

```
$ npm run build-dev
```

#### Production build

To produce a minified release `browserified` bundle:

```
$ npm run build
```


## Contributions

Please use the GitHub pull-request mechanism to submit contributions.


## Credits

This stands on the shoulders by reusing many excellent libraries and is inspired by the excellent [geojson.io](https://github.com/mapbox/geojson.io).

Some of the many other libraries used are:

* [Leaflet](https://github.com/Leaflet/)
* [Leaflet-draw](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.draw)
* [Proj4js](http://proj4js.org/)
* [Proj4Leaflet](https://github.com/kartena/Proj4Leaflet)


## Alternatives

If you dont want to use this tool then a simple alternative is to locally reproject your GeoJSON dataset with something such as [GDAL](http://www.gdal.org/ogr2ogr.html) or [reproject js library](https://github.com/perliedman/reproject) and then import into [geojson.io](https://github.com/mapbox/geojson.io).


## License

This project is available for use under the MIT software license.
See LICENSE
